# Comparative-Analysis-of-Machine-Learning-Models-for-Residential-Property-Valuation
Building and Comparing Traditional ML Regression Models to Estimate Housing Prices
This study examined the capabilities of multiple supervised machine learning models: Decision Tree Regressor, Random Forest Regressor, Gradient Boosting Regressor, and Support Vector Regression, and evaluated their performance in predicting prices of residential homes. Each model demonstrated different strategies in taking complex, non-linear data and outputting an estimated price. 

The Decision Tree model, while simple and interpretable, suffered from its limited scope, achieving an R² score of only 0.316. The Random Forest model improved performance through ensemble averaging, reaching an R² of 0.621 with reduced variance, though still exhibiting large prediction errors. Gradient Boosting delivered the most accurate results with an R² of 0.666 and the lowest MAE, indicating superior comparative capability in refining residual errors through iterative learning. Lastly, the Support Vector Regression model performed comparably to the Random Forest, achieving an R² of 0.601 after hyperparameter tuning and price scaling, but struggled with predicting the cost of higher valued homes. 

Gradient boosting showed the highest degree of accuracy overall, improving its accuracy with each decision tree iteration. However, all of these models were significantly inaccurate in a real-world context and would not be useful in property appraisal as of right now. An obvious explanation of this is the limited scope of the dataset. There are many factors that affect the price of housing in the US that the data set did not factor, such as the year a house was built, the state of the economy, the prices of neighboring houses, and many more that significantly contribute to the value of a home. While increasing the scope of the dataset would provide more information to this problem, it could pose many challenges to these different models as overfitting poses a significant challenge. However, by expanding the dataset, engineering the parameters and features of each model, and possibly experimenting with neural networks in this field, the possibility of a housing valuation machine learning model remains an exciting possibility in the ever-expanding field of artificial intelligence. 
